Title Number: tt0111161

Title Name: The Shawshank Redemption (1994)

Title One-Liner: Hope is a great thing!

Title Review:

The Shawshank Redemption is based on the classic short story 'Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption' by the great writer Stephen King, who has not only proved his worth in storytelling but has also given the Hollywood industry some great classics like Stanley Kubrick's, The Shining (1980), and Rob Reiner's Stand By Me (1986) over the past few decades. Let's just talk about Frank Darabont's direction, if I had to in one word it's awesome! A deeply moving piece of cinema, which is rare to find. Literally, you don't get to see such films even in two decades. A fantastic portrayal of a prisoner by Morgan Freeman makes him earn an Academy Award nomination. All in all, the film received seven Oscar nominations, including Best Picture, Best Direction and Best Actor. Believe me guys, I don't like wasting people's time, but this gem, if you trust me, is worth investing your precious time. I know you're not gonna regret this humble yet thrilling experience, which not only portrays the story of a few prisoners and jail staff member, but teaches you many important things about life, most importantly, about "Hope".

The story revolves around the protagonist Andy Dufrense, who is charged for murdering his own wife, but is he really guilty? You're gonna find out in the movie. The jail sequences in New England gives you a stunning experience of a real mid 1940's jail in the United States of America.

This film really moved me with its stunning end sequence and this character build throughout. For such a lovely portrayal of such a beautiful storyline amazes me every time I watch it. The cast ensemble is quite fantastic and the characters are pretty believable in this fictional plot. For such a rare and heart touching of art, I'm gonna remember this for long, maybe till my last breath. I'm gonna go with an 89% score for this one. It’s a must watch guys, do watch it.

Title Score: 89%
